---
layout: post
title: "About coffee"
tags: coffee, energy, sleep
---

I used to love coffee. Until one year ago, I drank coffee every day, 2-3 cups a day. I loved, and still appreciate it's rich taste and the comfort it gave me. This has changed. The past year, with very few exceptions, I've been off caffeine. No coffee, no black or green tea. No energy drinks. Instead I've been drinking decaf coffee, rooibos tea and other drinks without caffeeine. 

Now, this week I had gone one year without coffee, and wanted to try some again. I had one cup of coffee after lunch on Monday. At night I found it really hard to sleep. Then it was Wednesday. I was on a work event, and we had free access to some good coffee. I drank two small cups. At night I almost couldn't fall asleep again. I also woke up several times. Sleep quality was down the drain both days I drank coffee. And that was only after one cup early in the day!

For years I've had trouble sleeping. I have had so many nights where I couldn't sleep, just lying in bed looking at the ceiling, worrying about things. The past year's been different. I've slept well most nights. Also, my energy levels have improved gradually. This week's experiment with drinking coffee again made it pretty clear that caffeine played a crucial part in my sleep issues.

I used to have panic attacks. The last months before quitting caffeine I had them multiple times a week. Usually I got them on a bus, trying to look calm when everything inside me screamed "get out!". These panic attacks stopped the day I quit caffeine, and I've had just a few ones during the whole year. 

Bad sleep, low energy and panic attacks... Is it really worth it? Of course not! Caffeine  affected my productivity, happiness, bravery and energy in a really bad way, and all I had to do to start improving was to quit caffeine. I wasn't easy to quit, but it was worth it.

They say about sobrietry that "sobrietry gives you all the things alcohol promises", I would say something similar about coffee: quitting caffeine gives you all the energy and comfort that coffee promises. At least for me.

The past year my productivity have increased, sleep has improved, I'm calmer, fitter, more flexible. So much have improved the last year, and it started with quitting caffeine. I recommend you try the same. You might find that coffee isn't worth it, and that it's getting in the way of becoming the person you want to be.
